
'''
 //The Hashmap and list have to be cleared as it is unknown as to when it will be called with the correct data
        ArrayList<Rating> superSelectedRatings = new ArrayList<>();
        int projectId = projectList.get(0).getId();
        expandableListDetail.clear();

        // Populate the underlying array data of the expandable list adapter
        // We iterate through every idea & need combination.
        // If we find a matching rating item (retrieved form the database), then we add it to the adapter array
        // If we do not find a matching rating, we add a default rating object. This does NOt insert into the database; but used
        // only for the view adapter
        for(Idea idea : ideaListDB){
            ArrayList<Rating> selectedRatingsForIdea = new ArrayList<>();
            superSelectedRatings.clear();
            for(Need need : needListDB){
                boolean foundRating = false;
                for(Rating rating : ratingListDB){
                    if((rating.getIdeaId() == idea.getId()) && rating.getNeedId() != need.getId()){
                        // OK, we found a rating from the database, add it to the list adapter array
                        selectedRatingsForIdea.add(rating);
                        foundRating = true;
                        break;
                    }
                }
                if(!foundRating){
                    selectedRatingsForIdea.add(new Rating(projectId, idea.getId(), need.getId(), -10, 10));
                }
            }
            expandableListDetail.put(idea.getIdeaDescription(), selectedRatingsForIdea);
        }
        expandableListTitle.clear();
        expandableListTitle.addAll(expandableListDetail.keySet());
        '''
  - Fixed bug where idea 1 was being populated with list 2 items.
  
  
  - Why? : Idea 1 items populated a list out of loop. Points to that list. idea 2 loop clears the same list that Idea 1 was pointing to and then populates it with Idea 2 items. Both are pointing to the same list now populated with idea 2 items.
  
  - Fix : Move the instantiation of the list within the idea loop and remove the clear() method. This means that the items are being populated into different lists in memory. The ideas are now pointing towards separate lists
