# ex30: Else and if
```python
people = 30
cars = 40
trucks = 15

if cars > people:
    print "We should take the cars."
elif cars < people:   #If the if statement is not true , it will then go to elif (else if). If this statement is not true then it will run else
    print "We should not take the cars"
else:
    print "We cant't decide."

if trucks > cars:
    print "That's too many trucks."
else:
    print "We still can't decide."

if people > trucks:
    print "Alright, let's just take th trucks."
else:
    print "Fine, let's stay at home then."
```
**Note** Remember the colon!

*What happens if multiple elif blocks are True?*

Python starts and the top runs the first block that is True, so it will run only the first one.

# ex31: Making decisions
```python
print "You enter a dark room with two doors. Do you go through door #1 or door #2?"

door = raw_input("> ")

if bear == "1":
    print "There's a giant bear here eating cheese cake. What do you do?"
    print "1. Take the cake."
    print "2. Scream at the bear."

    bear = raw_input("> ")

    if bear == "1":
        print "The bear eats your face off. Good job!"
    elif bear == "2":
        print "The bear eats your leg off. Good job!"
    else:
        print "Well, doing %s is probably better. Bear runs away." % bear

elif door == "2":
    print "You stare into the endless abyss at Cthulhu's retina."
    print "1. Blueberries."
    print "2. Yellow jacket clothespins."
    print "3. Understanding revolovers yelling melodies."

    insanity = raw_input("> ")

    if insanity == "1" or insanity == "2":
        print "Your body survives powered by a mind of jello. Good job!"
    else:
        print "The insanity rots your eyes into a pool of muck. Good job!"

else:
    print "You stumble around and fall on a knife and die. Good job!"
```
A key point here is that you are now putting the if-statements inside if-statements as code that can run. This is very powerful and can be used to create "nested" decisions, where one branch leads to another and another.

**Common student questions**

*Can you replace elif with a sequence of if-else combinations?*

You can in some situations, but it depends on how each if/else is written. It also means that Python will check every if-else combination, rather than just the first false ones like it would with if-elif-else. Try to make some of these to figure out the differences.

*How do I tell if a number is between a range of numbers?*

You have two options: Use 0 < x < 10 or 1 <= x < 10, which is classic notation, or use x in range(1, 10).

*What if I wanted more options in the if-elif-else blocks?*

Add more elif blocks for each possible choice.

**My choose your own adventure**
```python
print "Welcome to the haunted mansion *spooky noises*"
print "Do you wish to enter through the 1. front door or 2. the backdoor?"

door = raw_input("> ")

if door == "1":
    print "You eyes slowly adjust to the gloom as you set foot into a dark room."
    print "1. Investigate the box that is sat in the corner of the room"
    print "2. Turn around and exit through the door you entered"

    box = raw_input("> ")

    if box == "1":
        print "You cautiouly lift up the lid of the box."
        print "A strange wailing sound floats up from the box."
        print "You scream and run out the house."
    else:
        print "You narrow your eyes whilst staring at the box and decide to leave."

elif door == "2":
    print "A long, narrow hallway appears infront of you. You take a deep breath."
    print "1. Go upstairs"
    print "2. Try a door that is at the end of the hallway"

    direction = raw_input("> ")

    if direction == "1":
        print "The stairs creek as you walk up and you grip onto the banister tightly."
        print "You notice a dusty torch on the floor at the top of the stairs."
        print "1. Pick up the torch and keep walking"
        print "2. Leave the torch where it is and keep walking"

        torch = raw_input("> ")

        if torch == "1":
            print "You hit the torch and it flickers on, emitting a dull glow."
            print "You shine it around the corridor and that's when you notice a dark shadowy figure."
            print "You make a run for it but trip and twist your ankle."
            print "You pull yourself up and bolt for the exit."
            print "The door closes behind you just as the shadowy figure slams into it. You are safe."
        elif torch == "2":
            print "You keep walking in the gloom and bump into a tall figure infront of you."
            print "The figure screams and hits you over the head."
            print "You crumple onto the ground, dead."
        else:
            print "You turn around to walk back down the stairs but realise that your exit is blocked by a tall shadowy figure."
            print "You scream and the figure laughs. That was the last thing you ever saw."

    elif direction == "2":
        print "You try the door handle but the door won't budge"
        print "You turn around slowly as you hear heavy breathing."
        print "The walls melt away and you fall back, hitting your head on the handle."
        print "A cackling sound comes from near your head. You black out."
    else:
        print "You try another room but fall trough a hole in the floor."
        print "Your leg is broken and you can't move. Oh dear."

else:
    print "A spooky voice floats out from the house."
    print "\"You will regret this decision and be haunted 'till the end of time.\""
```
**Mistake** Needed to put numbers in ""- This is because raw_input produces a string even if the input is a 'number' Therefore the value in the function also needs to be in a string unless the raw_input has been converted from a string to a number

**Mistake** Spelling

# ex32: Loops and lists

Before you can use a for-loop, you need a way to store the results of loops somewhere. The best way to do this is with lists. Lists are exactly what their name says: a container of things that are organized in order from first to last. It's not complicated; you just have to learn a new syntax. First, there's how you make lists:

```
hairs = ['brown', 'blond', 'red']
eyes = ['brown', 'blue', 'green']
weights = [1, 2, 3, 4]
```

You start the list with the \[ (left bracket) which "opens" the list. Then you put each item you want in the list separated by commas, similar to function arguments. Lastly, end the list with a \] (right bracket) to indicate that it's over. Python then takes this list and all its contents and assigns them to the variable.

```python
the_count = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
fruits = ['apples', 'oranges', 'pears', 'apricots']
change = [1, 'pennies', 2, 'dimes', 3, 'quarters']

# this first kind of for-loop goes through a list
for number in the_count:
    print "This is count %d" % number

# same as above
for fruit in fruits:
    print "A fruit of type: %s" % fruit

# also we can go through mixed lists too
# notice we have to use %r since we don't know what's in it
for i in change:
    print "T got %r" % i

# we can also build lists, first start with an empty one
elements = []

# the use the range function to do 0 to 5 counts
for i in range(0, 6): # I typed an o insted of 0
    print "Adding %d to the list." % i
    # append is a function that lists understand
    elements.append(i)

# now we can print them out too
for i in elements:
    print "Element was: %d" % i
```
range()
```
range(stop) -> list of integers
range(start, stop[, step]) -> list of integers

Return a list containing an arithmetic progression of integers.
range(i, j) returns [i, i+1, i+2, ..., j-1]; start (!) defaults to 0.
When step is given, it specifies the increment (or decrement).
For example, range(4) returns [0, 1, 2, 3].  The end point is omitted!
These are exactly the valid indices for a list of 4 elements.
```

**Common student questions**

*How do you make a 2-dimensional (2D) list?*

That's a list in a list like this: [[1,2,3],[4,5,6]]

*Aren't lists and arrays the same thing?*

Depends on the language and the implementation. In classic terms a list is very different from an array because of how they're implemented. In Ruby though they call these arrays. In Python they call them lists. Just call these lists for now since that's what Python calls them.

*Why is a for-loop able to use a variable that isn't defined yet?*

The variable is defined by the for-loop when it starts, initializing it to the current element of the loop iteration, each time through.

*Why does for i in range(1, 3): only loop two times instead of three times?*

The range() function only does numbers from the first to the last, not including the last. So it stops at two, not three in the above. This turns out to be the most common way to do this kind of loop.

*What does elements.append() do?*

It simply appends to the end of the list. Open up the Python shell and try a few examples with a list you make. Any time you run into things like this, always try to play with them interactively in the Python shell.

# ex33: While loops

Now to totally blow your mind with a new loop, the while-loop. A while-loop will keep executing the code block under it as long as a boolean expression is True.

Wait, you have been keeping up with the terminology, right? That if we write a line and end it with a : (colon) then that tells Python to start a new block of code? Then we indent and that's the new code. This is all about structuring your programs so that Python knows what you mean. If you do not get that idea then go back and do some more work with if-statements, functions, and the for-loop until you get it.

Back to while-loops. What they do is simply do a test like an if-statement, but instead of running the code block once, they jump back to the "top" where the while is, and repeat. A while-loop runs until the expression is False.

Here's the problem with while-loops: Sometimes they do not stop. This is great if your intention is to just keep looping until the end of the universe. Otherwise you almost always want your loops to end eventually.

To avoid these problems, there are some rules to follow:

1. Make sure that you use while-loops sparingly. Usually a for-loop is better.
2. Review your while statements and make sure that the boolean test will become False at some point.
3. When in doubt, print out your test variable at the top and bottom of the while-loop to see what it's doing.
