# ex35: Branches and Functions
```python
from sys import exit

def gold_room():
    print "This room is full of gold. How much do you take?"

    choice = raw_input("> ")
    if "0" in choice or "1" in choice:
        how_much = int(choice)
    else:
        dead("Man, learn how to type a number.")

    if how_much < 50:
        print "Nice, you're not greedy, you win!"
        exit(0) #Forgot this line
    else:
        dead("You greedy bastard!")



def bear_room():
    print "There is a bear here."
    print "The bear has a bunch of honey."
    print "The fat bear is in front of another door."
    print "How are you going to move the bear?"
    bear_moved = False # wrote false insted of False

    while True:
        choice = raw_input("> ")

        if choice == "take honey":
            dead("The bear looks at you then slaps your face off.")
        elif choice == "taunt bear" and not bear_moved:
                print "The bear has moved from the door. You can go through." #Had the string in dead() which caused the dead choice to be run incorrectly
                bear_moved = True  #Only one equals needed and needed to be indented in line with print
        elif choice == "taunt bear" and bear_moved:
            dead("The bear gets pissed off and chews your leg off.")
        elif choice == "open door" and bear_moved:
            gold_room()
        else:
            print "I got no idea what that means."


def cthulhu_room():
    print "Here you see the great evil Cthulhu."
    print "he, it, whatever stares at you and you go insane."
    print "Do you flee for your life or eat your head?"

    choice = raw_input("> ")

    if "flee" in choice:
        start()
    elif "head" in choice:
        dead("Well that was tasty!")
    else:
        cthulhu_room()


def dead(why):
    print why, "Good job!"
    exit(0)

def start():
    print "You are in a dark room."
    print "There is a door to your right and left."
    print "Which one do you take?"

    choice = raw_input("> ")

    if choice =="left":
        bear_room()
    elif choice == "right":
        cthulhu_room()
    else:
        dead("You stumble around the room until you starve.")


start()
```
*The gold_room has a weird way of getting you to type a number. What are all the bugs in this way of doing it? Can you make it better than what I've written? Look at how int() works for clues.*



*What does exit(0) do?*

On many operating systems a program can abort with exit(0), and the number passed in will indicate an error or not. If you do exit(1) then it will be an error, but exit(0) will be a good exit. The reason it's backward from normal boolean logic (with 0==False) is that you can use different numbers to indicate different error results. You can do exit(100) for a different error result than exit(2) or exit(1).

# ex36: Designing and debugging
**Rules for If-Statements**

1. Every if-statement must have an else.
2. If this else should never run because it doesn't make sense, then you must use a die function in the else that prints out an error message and dies, just like we did in the last exercise. This will find many errors.
3. Never nest if-statements more than two deep and always try to do them one deep.
4. Treat if-statements like paragraphs, where each if-elif-else grouping is like a set of sentences. Put blank lines before and after.
5. Your boolean tests should be simple. If they are complex, move their calculations to variables earlier in your function and use a good name for the variable.

**Note** Never be a slave to the rules in real life. For training purposes you need to follow these rules to make your mind strong, but in real life sometimes these rules are just stupid. If you think a rule is stupid, try not using it.

**Rules for loops**

1. Use a while-loop only to loop forever, and that means probably never. This only applies to Python; other languages are different.
2. Use a for-loop for all other kinds of looping, especially if there is a fixed or limited number of things to loop over.

**Tips for debugging**
1. Do not use a "debugger." A debugger is like doing a full-body scan on a sick person. You do not get any specific useful information, and you find a whole lot of information that doesn't help and is just confusing.
2. The best way to debug a program is to use print to print out the values of variables at points in the program to see where they go wrong.
3. Make sure parts of your programs work as you work on them. Do not write massive files of code before you try to run them. Code a little, run a little, fix a little.

**The best way to work on a piece of software is in small chunks like this:**

1. On a sheet of paper or an index card, write a list of tasks you need to complete to finish the software. This is your to do list.
2. Pick the easiest thing you can do from your list.
3. Write out English comments in your source file as a guide for how you would accomplish this task in your code.
4. Write some of the code under the English comments.
5. Quickly run your script so see if that code worked.
6. Keep working in a cycle of writing some code, running it to test it, and fixing it until it works.
7. Cross this task off your list, then pick your next easiest task and repeat.

*This process will help you work on software in a methodical and consistent manner. As you work, update your list by removing tasks you don't really need and adding ones you do.*
